## Connected Application: [Sound of the Earth: Chapter 3](https://soundoftheearth.org/)

  _Sound of the Earth: Chapter 3_ is a connected application that allows people to record and submits sounds from all around the world. Listening to the audios being played was very captivating because they were unique and varied, depending on where they were recorded from. For instance, some sounds were recorded at night in the country, so you could hear crickets chirping. Others were recorded in a city, so you could of cars driving by. Other sounds were so strange you could not make sense of. With this wide spectrum of sounds being displayed, I was imagined myself immersing in the sound of the Earth. Thus, the application has accomplished its mission to represent the sound of the Earth.

I think the experience of hearing these sounds would be immensely improved if the most recent recorded audios were played. This would create an illusion that people are listening to the sound of the Earth live. However, due to constraints, sounds recorded 1-2 months ago are played. When I finished recording and submitting my sound, my audio was not immediately played. It would be more satisfying to hear my sound in the mix of the other sounds because it would make me feel that I am a part of the world.  Thus, although it gives the feeling of what the Earth sounds like, it does not capture the current sound of the Earth. 

Another thing that the creator of this application should be cautious of is appropriateness of the sound being recorded. Anyone could record and upload any sounds to this application, so an improper sound could be recorded and ruin the whole application. To avoid this hazard, the recorded sounds should be scrutinized before they are played to the public. Having a people checking enormous data of sounds could consume a lot of time before they were able to be published. A solution could be developing and using an AI addon that is able recognize inappropriate sounds. 

Nevertheless, I enjoyed using this application. The user interface is simple, beautiful, and easy to navigate. I love the use of wireframe globe to represent the Earth. A vertex on the globe will light up to represent the location from which the audio is played from. This is very helpful in comprehending the distances between these sounds. You can also rotate the globe and see an animated path between the active vertices. In addition, the application uses a red big dot for the record button, making the record button very obvious to the users. Thus, the overall concept and design of the project are exceptional. 

